>> Mark Miller: Good afternoon, and welcome to the iTunes
and App Store Affiliate Tools and Technologies session.
My name is Mark Miller.
I work for the iTunes Store on the Engineering team,
and today we've got a lot of great stuff to talk
about with the affiliate program, and the tools and
services you can use to use the affiliate program.
So, this is our first time presenting at WWDC about the
program, so we'll give a quick overview, what it is,
how it works, just so everybody's caught up.
Following that, we'll kind of go into some common use cases,
mistakes people make when they first join the
program, just to try and alleviate any errors.
And then, finally, we'll dive down into some of the
really cool tools that you can use to generate links
and find content for your customers on the iTunes Store.
So, what is the affiliate program?
It is a great way for helping you promote
your apps and other content on the Store.
Along the way, it allows you to earn money for referrals.
That money is called a bounty.
It's a commission.
It's based on the percentage of the sale that is
made after a user clicks a link and makes a purchase.
The program also provides some metrics for you
to judge the effectiveness of your marketing.
So, you can say this link on page 2 of my website is working
really well, while this other link in my app isn't working.
And as I alluded to, it works both on your
apps, and in your apps, and on your websites.
So, quick cast of characters, so
we know who we're talking about.
First of all, we've got the iTunes and App Store
servers, then we have affiliate publishers.
That would be you in the audience,
hopefully, at the end of this session.
And kind of bridging the gap between
us, there's the affiliate networks.
I'll get into what they do in just a second.
And, finally, we have customers: your
customers and customers on the iTunes Store.
So, the affiliate networks kind of fill in and provide
some services for you, the publisher, that iTunes can't.
And to do that, we partner with
different organizations around the globe.
In the U.S., the affiliate network is LinkShare, while
in Europe, the affiliate network is TradeDoubler.
In Japan, again, we go with LinkShare,
and DGM covers Australia and New Zealand.
The affiliate networks, they will
vary in their terms and conditions.
You do need to sign up with each, in turn.
The bounty percentage is going to vary a little bit,
but, for the most part, it's going to be five percent,
and the bounty window, meaning the time between a click
and the time between a purchase, is three days, worldwide.
So, how does this all work?
It is all about the links, the links that you
create for your customers and that they click on.
Here's a basic iTunes link to an app called Remote.
And we need to annotate that link with some
affiliate data, so that you can get a bounty.
So, let's go into that.
The first query parameter that's
really important is the partnerId.
The partnerId identifies the affiliate network, either
LinkShare, or TradeDoubler, or DGM, what have you.
And the second piece of information is the affiliate token.
This is sort of an opaque string to the iTunes
Store that identifies you to the affiliate network.
So, you'll get an affiliate token from the network.
Some concrete examples here.
For LinkShare, the partnerId is 30,
and the affiliate token name is siteID.
So, this is the actual query parameter that
will be on the URL, and it's called siteID.
You can see here an example.
It's sort of a strange string, CBIMI.
For TradeDoubler, the partnerId is 2003,
and the affiliate token name is tduid.
You'll notice that this is all lower case.
These query parameters are case sensitive, so make sure
you get them right when you're constructing your URLs.
And DGM, finally, the partnerId is 1002,
and the affiliate token name is affToken.
So, we saw some basic links right there that will allow you
to get a bounty for a purchase made on the iTunes Store,
but you can also do a more complicated link, such as this,
that will allow you to get reports on clicks, impressions,
and other information, via the affiliate network.
So, what this URL does is, when a user clicks
on it, it goes through the affiliate network.
The affiliate network tracks that a little bit,
redirects them to the iTunes Store,
and they don't see anything different.
So, what happens when your user clicks on an affiliate link?
Well, it's pretty simple.
Here, we have a webpage, and they click on
a link, and they get into the iTunes Store.
It's the same thing as an unaffiliated link.
Under the covers, though, a little
something different is happening.
So, over on the left, we've got Mobile Safari.
This is just kind of playing the role of either your
app, or a desktop browser, or even a desktop app.
And then there's iTunes, the client, the
affiliate network, and the iTunes Store.
So, when the browser makes a request,
clicks on an affiliated URL,
it's going to go to the affiliate
networks redirection server.
That network will record the click and redirect
or send a redirect back to the browser.
The browser will then launch iTunes, which makes a
similar affiliated request directly to the iTunes Store.
iTunes will take the URL off the affiliate data off the
URL, put it into a cookie, and send it back to iTunes.
So, at this point, we're in the bounty window.
The user has clicked a URL, and
he or she is browsing the Store.
Hopefully, within the next three
days, she'll make a purchase.
So, let's do that.
The purchase is made.
The product is downloaded.
The customer's happy.
iTunes Store reports the sale to the affiliate network.
After this, you'll see the purchase happen, and
eventually you'll get credited with that bounty.
So, given that's how it works, let's go into some
use case scenarios of where this might be applicable.
In your app, you can use it to promote
similar apps or companion apps.
If you've got a game, and there's another game that you
think your users will like, go ahead and link to that game
in your app, and make it an affiliated link.
Now, it doesn't have to be-- you don't
have to link to content that you created.
It could be other links.
If you have an app that recommends other apps, or maybe
an app that recommends TV shows that a user would like,
make those links affiliated and
earn the affiliate revenue that way.
Finally, you want to connect your
customers with the content that they want.
If, at a certain point in your app, you know that your
user is looking for some TV episode, or some music video,
or some song or album, go ahead and give them that
link, so that they have the option to get it right then.
On your website, the situation is very similar.
You might have a website that's promoting your
application to maybe someone who's searching online.
Make those links affiliated, and
then you can track how they're doing,
see what works to really get people buying your app.
You might link to similar or some sort of complementary app.
If you've got some productivity software that works
really well with another piece of software, link to that.
It's sort of a custom package that
your customers will appreciate.
And, finally, you can link just any random
content to that content on the iTunes Store.
So, if you run a streaming radio station, or maybe
you have some sort of channel listing for TV shows,
or a music recommendation engine, link that content to the
iTunes Store and get the affiliate revenue, based on that.
These are some of the common pitfalls that
people run into, when they first get started.
The number one thing is not checking the URL for
the existence of a query string before modifying it.
So, here we have a URL that doesn't have a question
mark identifying the start of a query string,
and this user has just appended &partnerId=30.
That's not going to work, and it
probably won't even load to a webpage.
Better is to check for the question mark
and append the affiliate data that way.
The same holds true in reverse.
If there's already a question mark, you need to
use ampersand to separate your query parameters.
So, here's a link with a question mark already
on it, and we use ampersand to add the partnerId
and the affiliate token, siteID in this case.
This is another issue that might be a little unexpected.
If you have users in a particular storefront,
you need to use the affiliate network
that's associated with that storefront.
So, if you have French users, you need to provide
them with a TradeDoubler URL, because if they buy--
if they click, say, a LinkShare, U.S. link, and make a
purchase, we can't send that data to LinkShare from Europe.
So, it's important that you create
the right URL for your customers.
And, finally, this is just sort
of the simple generic advice.
Test the links.
If you're rolling out a new feature, or you're doing some
sort of big push, make sure that when the URL is clicked on,
it winds up at the right place,
and your users will be happier.
Also, if it's a really big thing, go ahead,
click that link, and make a purchase.
You can purchase any cheap content.
It doesn't have to be for your high-priced app.
The sale will bounty, regardless.
So, that's kind of the overview.
Let's go into some of the tools and services we provide.
You might have noticed that the URLs can be complicated,
and so we really want to make that easier on you.
And for that, we have a tool called Link Maker.
Link Maker is the simplest way
to generate an affiliated URL.
All you do is search for content
and get an affiliated URL back.
But, obviously, that doesn't really scale.
Once you're generating more than 50 links or so,
you might want to come up with something
more dynamic, and for that you've got RSS.
RSS is the same service that feeds your
newsreaders, and weblogs, and what have you.
But we use RSS to promote popular content on the Store.
We have feeds for new content, recently
featured content, and the popular stuff.
Now, once you have RSS, you might
find yourself a little bit not too--
you might need something more responsive to your users.
For that, we have a Search API, so you can actually generate
searches against the iTunes Store over the web and get back,
programmatically, the content that
you or they are looking for.
It's a great way to add some interactivity.
So then we might want to graduate to the
next level of technicality, if you will.
The Search API is great, but it doesn't scale well if
you're making a million queries an hour or whatever.
You might want to have all that data within your
systems integrated so that you can do custom queries.
For that, we have Enterprise Partner Feeds.
It's a bulk data download that you pull down over HTTP,
integrate into your databases, and you can access that way.
And, finally, once we have this library of music or library
of other content that you want to link to the iTunes Store,
you might want to construct a custom playlist for your
users, so that they can buy a mix of their favorite genre
of music, and you can create that, because,
presumably, you know what they're interested in.
Web iMix is a great solution for this, because it
gives them a customized playlist on the iTunes Store.
So, let's take a look at Link Maker,
see how it works and what it does.
Link Maker, as I said, is the simplest
way to create links on the iTunes Store.
You put in a search term, and you
get back affiliated search results.
You can access it at itunes.apple.com/linkmaker, and
we just launched the new version an hour or so ago.
So, if you want to check it out, I encourage it.
Link Maker is a very simple tool.
You put in a search term, and specify some
parameters, and you get back search results.
If you click the link on the right, you'll get an overlay,
which provides the affiliated URL, along with a custom HTML
that you can drop into a webpage, if you need to.
And we offer three variations on the URL, so that--
I'm sorry-- on the HTML, so you can get a text link,
or a text link with a picture, or
a badge, and that sort of thing.
And this is what that overlay looks like.
You've got - it gives you the encoded link,
and, below it, the HTML allows you to copy/paste
that into a webpage or into your app, if you need to.
Obviously, though, that's a one link at a time sort
of tool, and we might want to have a whole bunch
of links coming in, and that's where RSS comes in.
RSS provides you a feed of dynamic, constantly updating
content that is a great way to spice up any place
where you feel like the content you have is too static.
You can put this on a website or in your app, and
there are a number of feeds: popular content, new,
and recently added content, recently added, being
back-cataloged stuff that only recently appeared
on the iTunes Store, and we also have featured content.
So, it's the stuff that's being
promoted on the pages right now.
Here's what an RSS link looks like.
For music, for example, we have a
top albums feed and a top songs feed.
Perhaps, on the other hand, we have the top paid
applications, and there's actually a number of feeds,
in this case, where you can get the top free
applications or the top-grossing applications, as well.
All those are different feed URLs.
As far as content types, we cover a wide variety.
There's podcasts, movies, music
videos, audiobooks, TV shows.
There's a lot there.
You can get the full list of the
RSS content at itunes.apple.com/rss.
We have a little generator there that will allow you
to specify some parameters and
generate a feed URL for you to use.
So, we saw those basic URLs, but
maybe we want to customize it a bit.
If we're interested in the top albums in France,
well, we just put in the French country code
at the first element in the path, and that all works.
You might be more interested in the top albums
in a particular genre; in this case, Blues.
Well, that's easy, too.
We put in, as an option, genre=2, 2
being the genre ID of the Blues genre.
There's a full list of all the genres
available, available at the resource site
that I'll mention at the end of this talk.
We can also extend or contract the number of
items in the RSS feed that we see at a given time.
And with that, it's called limit, and you say limit=200, and
you'll get the top 200 albums in the Blues genre in France.
And, finally, we can get to the advanced options.
The standard feed format that you're going to get is Atom,
and that's specified by the xml
extension at the end of the URL.
We also offer JSON output.
This is Javascript Object Notation,
that you may be familiar with.
That's available just by changing the extension to json.
If you want to learn more about Javascript
Object Notation, you can check out JSON.org.
But, in essence, it's a interchange
format that's very similar
to the old style plists, if you're familiar with those.
We also provide JavaScript callbacks, via the
callback parameter, and this allows the JSON format
to integrate with JavaScript on your websites.
And so to give a demo of what you can do with RSS,
we've got Joe Hwang, my colleague on the iTunes Store.
He's going to give us a quick tour of a music
blog that needs some pizzazz, if you will.
So, I'll turn it over to Joe.
>> Joe Hwang: Thanks, Mark.
Nice to see all you guys here today.
[applause] Thank you.
So, in the beginning, Mark talked about affiliated links,
and so how you can earn a bounty on links that are driven
to the Store, and he also talked about RSS, which
is a way that you can grab content from the Store.
So, let's figure out a way to put those two things
together and spruce up our little music blog here.
So, we have a music blog, and it's kind of nice, and you
can talk about the latest music thing that's going on.
But let's say we want to make this
a little bit more dynamic.
So, we can do that by adding a splash banner on top
of the top five albums in the iTunes Store today.
So, this is the same page.
We just added the splash banner on top, and these
are the top six albums in iTunes Store right now.
And so there are a lot of advantages to this.
The first thing is that all of this data is dynamic.
You can just set up the code once, and it's an RSS feed,
so it'll constantly update with all the latest stuff.
It also looks pretty cool.
You get all the cover art, and you get
all the metadata that comes with it.
So, from this example, we're pulling down the
five most popular songs from each of these albums.
And, of course, these links are also affiliated.
So, if you take a look here, here's the affiliated link.
This is the click tracking that
Mark talked about in the beginning.
And if anyone clicks on one of these
links, and gets driven to the Store,
and then buys something, then you
get a bounty, which is great.
So, let's take a look at some of the code for this.
One thing to note is that it's very simple.
It's very easy to do.
So, here's our script, where, first,
we have the feed URL here.
And if you notice, it is slightly different from
the feed URL that Mark gave a little bit earlier.
That's because the demo was written
before all the URLs were updated.
And we're pulling down the top Alternative albums.
So, this is the genre ID here,
and we're grabbing the top albums.
Again, you can customize this however you like with whatever
genre or whatever type of media type you want to do.
Here, we have the partnerId, which
is, in this case, LinkShare.
PartnerId 30 is LinkShare, and
the URL prefix for click tracking.
So, we put all that together, and we're calling this method
here RSS.getsimplifiedfeed, and this method, pretty much,
what it does, it'll call the URL, get the JSON back,
which is an easy way to do object notation in Javascript,
and go through each of those rows, getting
the fields from each of those rows,
and then creating some HTML markup
to output into what you saw earlier.
So, again, it's really simple to do.
It's dynamic.
It'll always update with whatever
is there, and you get the bounty.
So, yeah, just an example of how
you can put those things together.
>> Mark Miller: Great.
Thanks, Joe.
[applause] Oh, and just a quick
reminder, all the sample code
that we're demoing here today is
available, and it's attached to the session.
There was a little problem at first, so you
might want to check again, if you're interested.
So, RSS, it's a great way to get a feed of content,
but maybe you want something more
of a conversation interactivity.
How do we search through the Store
for something in particular?
That's where the Search API comes into play.
The Search API provides search
and metadata lookup on the web.
The responses are in the JSON format,
and there's two main actions.
There's Search.
This is where you provide a search term of some sort.
And then there's a Lookup.
A lookup is an ID-based lookup.
So, if you have iTunes IDs already from some other system
or some other source, you can look up that content,
using that ID, and get up-to-date pricing, availability
information, and all sorts of metadata, as well.
So, here's some of the data that you can
get, if you do use the JSON Search API.
This is an example for an application, but you can see
that there's the artist ID is available, the price,
a URL where you can download it,
the supported devices, description.
There's a lot of information there, and it's pretty rich.
So, how do we actually construct
a Search URL to get this data?
The simplest possible way to do that is to just use
the query parameter called "term," but there's a lot
of modifiers available, so that you can dig pretty
deep into the Store to find what you're looking for.
First and easiest is "country."
The country specifies which country you're
interested in, and if an item is not available
in that country, then you won't get the result.
You can also specify the "language."
So, if we have a localization or a localized
title in that language, you can specify that.
"Media" is an interesting thing where you can say-- it's
a broad term, but you can specify that you're interested
in music content, as opposed to application
content, or maybe it's TV content.
All that can be handled with media.
If you want to get more specific,
though, you can specify the "entity."
The entity distinguishes, say, between an album
and a song, or a TV episode and a TV season.
You can also specify the "attributes," so this is
the aspect of the entity that you're searching on.
We'll get to that in a minute with an example.
As in RSS, we also provide a "limit," so you
can specify how many results you want back.
And also, like RSS, we have a "callback," so that allows
you to use this from JavaScript on a remote website.
And the results come back as JSON dictionaries, and
in the search case, they're sorted by relevancy.
So, the top item is supposed to be
the most relevant to your search.
So, let's take a simple example.
We're searching for Madonna.
Well, that URL is pretty simple.
You say, term=madonna, and you're good to go, but
say we're actually interested in Madonna's books.
She's also an author.
So, we specify that the media we're interested in is
audiobook, and we want five results back, so we add limit=5.
Now maybe we rollback a little bit and say,
"No, let's get the music albums instead."
For that, it's media=music, and the entity=album.
A little more advanced, we might want
songs named Madonna, not songs by Madonna.
In that case, we can use attribute=songTerm.
So, that means that the search will be applied to the song
name, rather than the artist associated with the song.
So, this can be very powerful when you want to get
very particular about the searches you're doing.
So, that's Search, in a nutshell, but if we
already have the IDs that we're looking for,
and we just want to query some things about it, Lookup comes
into play, and Lookup takes an iTunes ID in an "id" param.
And if you want to specify multiple IDs in a single
request, you can do that with just a comma separator.
You can also use different IDs.
So, if you have the UPC for an item, you can use that, and
if you have All Music Guide IDs, we also offer that mapping.
So, Lookup query parameters, mostly the same
as Search: country, language, limit, callback.
All these are familiar.
"Entity" is the same, but we use it differently,
and I'll get to that in just a moment.
We also allow you to "sort."
So, what is this for?
So, we might do a simple lookup for Madonna.
We already know her artist ID is 20044, so we put together
a URL like this, and we get that single result back.
Now we might want to fetch Madonna's top songs.
Well, how do we do that?
In that case, we specify the artist
ID, but you include the entity as song.
What that will do is fetch the artist, and then look
on the artist's songs and return those, as well.
We also are applying a sort to this URL,
and we're saying rank it by popularity,
so you'll get the top five songs for
Madonna with just this one query.
You can also change that.
If you're not interested in the most
popular songs, but maybe the most recent,
we can give you the most recent songs with sort=recent.
This can also be very powerful
for up-to-the-minute sort of data.
And to give us another demo of the Search API and what
you can do with it, I'm going to turn it over back to Joe.
Thanks, Joe.
>> Joe Hwang: All right, so just to show off the Search API
a little bit, here we have, again, our simple music blog,
and you can spruce it up with a search field here.
And this is just going to be calling the
WS search that Mark just talked about.
So, here, if we search for Madonna,
here we can get these results back,
and these are all coming directly from the Store.
And, again, we have beautiful cover art
that you can format however you like.
All the metadata, that's there, and, again,
importantly, all of these links are affiliated links,
so that people who click on these and buy things
on the Store, you'll get a bounty for that.
So, let's take a look at the code again.
It's very simple, very similar to before.
We have our partnerId and our URL prefix,
and we're calling here, do search.
So, in this JavaScript method, we're setting
up our query here with limits, and, you know,
all the other delimiters that you want to add.
We're asking for all tracks, so songs, and here's
the URL that we're going to be sending a query to.
We get the JSON back from that query, and, once again,
we're going to go ahead and format all of the markup
with the JSON objects that we received back.
So, once again, it's very simple to do, and it looks great.
>> Mark Miller: Thanks, Joe.
>> Joe Hwang: All right.
>> Mark Miller: So, that's a quick taste of what you can do.
Again, this is all provided in sample code, that you're
welcome to customize and use on your sites or in your apps.
But, again, the Search API might not scale well,
if you're doing a very large number of queries,
or if you're just trying to get a better sense of
what you're trying, a better sense of what's going
on in the Store, and maybe you need to do more analysis.
For that, we've got the Enterprise Partner Feeds.
The Enterprise Partner Feed, or EPF, as
it's called, it comes in two flavors.
There's EPF Relational, which is
a format that's very suited,
very well suited for relational
databases like MySQL, Postgres, whatever.
It also comes in a Flat flavor.
This is all of the data for a given
content type and country in a single file,
and there's some applications that
you can use that for, as well.
So, let's take a look at EPF Relational.
EPF Relational has a lot of very rich
metadata about virtually all iTunes content.
It's intended, as I said, to be imported into a
relational database, so it comes in multiple files,
each one representing a database table, and it's aimed
at organizations that need to run custom queries,
so if you need to run some SQL, that gives
you prices or whatever, all that data's there.
It's a great tool.
So, what data is available?
And the answer is most anything that you can
see on the iTunes Store is going to be an EPF.
So, just anything that you can see on
these pages is going to be in there.
For some more concrete example, we can take a
look at apps, near and dear to all our hearts.
You've got the basics, the app name, developer, the
price, and the URL, which you can access the app,
but you can also get the app description, the
recommended age, screenshot URLs, copyright information,
that sort of thing, and you can
also get device requirements,
the popularity for an app-- a lot of rich data there.
So, how does it work?
EPF comes out every week as a full export, so this
is as near a complete dump of the data that we have
in the iTunes database onto disc and into files.
We also do a daily incremental export
that's relative to the full export.
The incrementals are data that's new or
that has changed since the last export.
So, if the full export arrives on Wednesday,
the Thursday incremental will have all
of the deltas corresponding to Wednesday.
Now, this also applies to Friday, Saturday, Sunday, as well.
On Sunday, it will be a cumulative export
of anything that's changed since Wednesday.
Now, where do you get these files?
You download them over HTTP.
There's a server that you can, that we'll
mention, that's available on the Resources site.
So, the structure of what you're downloading--
data is organized into purpose-specific archives.
These are grouped into iTunes, which is
just the basic metadata that you'd expect,
app name, album name, that sort of thing.
Matching, which is great, it provides
all the UPC, ISRC, ISAM.
Any sort of standard ID that we have,
we export in the matching archive.
The pricing archive has prices across all
countries, and there's a new popularity archive,
which gives you the popularity per
genre of various bits of content.
Now, within the archives, there are files,
and those represent the database tables.
So, here's an example.
We have the artist table, and we
also have the application table.
Now, artist is the term that we use
to describe you, the app developer.
We're all artists here, so, you, too, are an artist.
To link them, we have a join table.
This is just like your Database 101 class.
It's the same sort of schema you'd expect.
So, we have the artist application join table.
Now, the file format, if you're going
to be processing, this is important.
EPF files are formatted by records and fields.
The field separator is ASCII char 1, and the
record separator is ASCII char 2 + a new line.
This is a good match for readability within the
file, and the delimiters are not actually printable,
so they won't interfere with the actual content.
We also have a comment record.
That's just a record whose first character is hash.
We use comments to provide metadata
about a particular table/file.
So, that includes the column names,
some database type information,
primary keys that you might want to
set up, a lot of useful stuff there.
So, that's EPF Relational.
We can take a quick look at EPF Flat, as well.
EPF Flat is a simpler approach.
For a given country plus content type, there's
exactly one file that you have to download,
and EPF Flat uses a tab-separated values format,
so it's compatible with spreadsheet applications.
So, if you need to select a portion of
the file, paste it into a spreadsheet,
and manipulate the data that way, you can.
It's very easy.
Now, these files are very large.
There's a large number of songs on the Store, so it's
not going to be simple just to open up the whole file
in a spreadsheet, but you can do a subset.
There's no schema, no relational tables,
none of that sort of academic type stuff.
All of the data for a given object appears in a single row.
So, if you want to find some data
about an app, you search for the name.
The price is going to be right there.
And EPF Flat is great for populating
a non-relational data store.
So, if you're using CouchDB or
Memcached, all of these kind of popular,
no SQL key value stores, EPF Flat
is a great candidate for that.
So, that's EPF Flat.
And, fortunately, all this complexity,
we've come up with a tool
that helps you pull this data down
and import it into your databases.
So, EPF Importer is a cross-platform Python
app that imports EPF into a MySQL database.
It handles both Relational and Flat
style data, and it's self-configuring.
It actually reads those comments I mentioned
and figures out what it needs to do.
On the command line, you can restrict the
imports with a whitelist or blacklist,
and it also supports resume, so it's production ready.
If you need to run this in a high availability
production environment and something happens to it,
it'll pick right up where it left
off, if something happens, that is.
And it's released as sample code.
It should be attached to the session,
so I urge you to check it out.
It's great stuff.
And to give you a quick demo of EPF and EPF Importer,
we've got Rick Rubenstein, a colleague on the QA team.
He's also the author of EPF Import,
so perfect for talking about it.
>> Rick Rubenstein: Thank you, Mark.
[applause] Thank you.
So, as Mark said, EPF Importer is a
relatively simple Python tool, cross-platform,
imports EPF files of any sort into a MySQL database.
Before we actually run EPF Importer itself and take a
look at that, let's take a quick look at what you'll see
if you download and unarchive one
of the EPF Relational feeds.
So, here we have the iTunes feed, which contains all of
the basic metadata on all different content types, artists,
genres, etc. There's about 40 files
in this particular download.
And even though this is everything on the
iTunes Store, it's not a huge amount of data.
It's a few gigabytes, compressed,
so not at all difficult to handle.
Let's take a look at the same thing here.
So, again, here's the list.
We have, for example, an artist table, collection,
various joined tables, as Mark mentioned.
So, let's take a quick look at the actual
content of one of these downloaded files.
Let's look at the genre file, which is relatively simple,
and just take a look at the first
eight rows of the genre file.
So, up here at the top, well, the first thing that you'll
notice is these funny-looking characters jumping out.
Those are the record and field delimiters
that Mark mentioned, ASCII 1 and ASCII 2.
At the top here, we have a number of comment rows.
So, the first comment row, by the definition
of the EPF spec, is always a list of column
or record names for that particular exported file.
There's always an export date, so you can make
sure that you always have the most recent;
in this case, genre ID, parent ID, and name.
Primary key is genre ID.
Every genre ID in the genre feed will be unique.
DB types is the data types associated with each column or
record, which you would use when creating your database
to make sure that the record type matches the data type.
And, finally, the export mode, which in this case is full.
This is a full EPF Relational export,
as opposed to an incremental export.
And EPF Importer knows how to automatically distinguish
between the two and do the proper type of import,
either replacing the entire content of the
database table or updating it in place.
And here we have just the first few
rows of content of the genre feed.
So, we have the genre number, the parent genre, which, in
this case, would be music, and Jazz, Latin, New Age, Pop,
etc., what you would expect to find in here.
So, let's take a quick look at how
this looks from the database side.
So, let's switch over to a database visualizer
here and connect to our EPF database,
where we've already imported files from pretty
much the entire EPF relational set of feeds.
So, here we have the list of all the different
feeds over on the left, already imported.
Let's take a quick look at the
genre table that we were looking at.
So, here we have the structure of
it, again, just four simple fields.
We have the primary key defined over here as genre ID, etc.,
and here's what the content looks
like from the database side.
So, as I said, the genre feed is a fairly simple one.
There are only a few columns.
It's not very large.
Let's take a look at application,
which is a little more complex.
You're going to feel a good structure here.
You've got maybe, oh, 16-20 different columns.
This is what the application would
look like, application feed would look
like after being imported into the EPF database.
So, now, for demonstration purposes, we're going to
actually go ahead and delete this application table,
and then we're going to recreate
it by doing an actual EPF import
of the downloaded and unarchived application data feed.
Normally, you wouldn't actually have to
delete it from the database beforehand,
EPF Importer would take care of that itself.
So, let's switch back over to the command line here.
So, this is a typical command for running
the EPF Importer tool, to do what we want.
So, it's invoked, just as you would invoke any
ordinary command line script, EPFImporter.pi.
-w indicates that we're using a whitelist.
We don't want to import here during the
demo, all of the files that we downloaded.
We only want the application file.
So, that's specified here.
You may notice the little carat and dollar sign.
The whitelist is defined as a set of regular expressions,
for those of you familiar with regular expressions.
So, you can quite sophisticatedly filter out
which files you would or wouldn't want to import.
For those of you not familiar with
regular expressions, don't worry.
You need to learn very little of
them in order to use EPF Importer.
And, finally, here, we have simply the
path to the directory of the set of files
of which we're going to import an application.
So, let's go ahead and run this right now and
begin an EPF import of the application feed.
So, it's running now.
It logs a number of things.
EPF Importer is configured to log both to the
console and also to a rotating set of log files.
Each time you do an import, it creates
a new log file, very easily searchable.
This is going to take just a little bit of time to
import, so while we're waiting for that to complete,
let's take a look just briefly at
the code of EPF Importer itself.
EPF Importer is written in file, Python.
It's not terribly long.
It's going to be a couple of thousand lines
of code, total, consists of three modules.
EPF Parser, this is the part of the code that
knows how to parse the data from the EPF files.
It parses the metadata directly from those comment headers
at the top, and knows how the table will need to be created,
based on that metadata, applying the primary key
constraints, etc. EPF Ingester is the part of the code
that communicates with the MySQL database.
It knows how to connect to it, and it also knows
how to actually create and populate the tables
in the correct manner, using the data
that it retrieves from the parser.
So, we mentioned that this is released as sample code.
One obvious modification you would make, if you
wanted to import into some other kind of a database,
rather than MySQL-- we chose that simply because it's freely
available, well supported-- but if you wanted to use, say,
a Postgres database or an Oracle database, this would be
the Python module that you would be modifying or replacing.
And, finally, EPF Importer, itself, is
what you call from the command line.
It parses the command line arguments, applies constraints
from a config file, which you can supply, etc. So,
the import is probably finished by now,
so let's go back to determine here.
There we go.
It's finished.
Total import time for all directories
about 42 seconds, not too shabby.
And now let's take a look at what
we've actually accomplished here.
Let's do a quick refresh of our table list, and now
application has returned, and here it is in all its glory.
Here we have about 210,000 rows.
This is actually not production data.
If it was, we'd have 225,000.
Anyway, so this has all been repopulated automatically.
All of the constraints have been
applied, the primary key, everything else.
The table is recreated, required virtually
no human configuration of the MySQL database.
So, once you have all of this data imported into your own
personal database, what sorts of things can you do with it?
Well, you can, you know, do whatever you
want, but, as a couple of concrete examples,
we have a couple of queries prepared here.
So, first query here would be to find the most popular
apps in the U.S. Store, the genre of productivity
that contain "keynote" in the description field.
And I won't go into too much detail on the actual SQL.
Those of you who know SQL will see some familiar
things, but you're selecting a certain number of fields,
performing a join on a different table from the
table list, etc. So, let's go ahead and run this.
And it goes very quickly, and here we have 16 rows,
which are all of the applications
that meets this set of parameters.
So, let's now do a slightly more sophisticated query.
We didn't pull down all of the available rows from this, but
one that's not in the table that we were querying is price.
That exists in another table, so
let's take a look at a second query.
This will actually retrieve, essentially,
the same set of data as before,
but this time it will also retrieve the
prices from the separate price table.
Let's go ahead and run this, and there
we have the list of the same apps,
but with their retail price over there on the side.
So, that's just scratching the surface of the kind
of things you can do using EPF Importer
and the EPF Relational or Flat feeds.
Back to you, Mark.
Thanks.
>> Mark Miller: Thanks, Rick.
[applause] So, yeah, a lot of stuff
you can do with EPF and EPF Importer.
Again, sample code, check it out.
A lot of possibilities.
So, next on the list, we have Web iMix.
Web iMix is a way for you to dynamically generate playlists.
If you have a library of content, and you know
your customers are interested in some subset,
you could put that all together in a playlist
just for them, and they can buy it with one click.
The important part here is that you
can do it just by creating a URL.
It's not like the regular iMix feature
that you might be familiar with.
You don't have to pre-upload or
predefine anything, via the iTunes client.
It's all done by the URL.
And here's what it looks like in the iTunes client.
So, how do we do that?
Well, here's an example URL, and it's obviously pretty
complicated, but let's highlight some key features.
First of all, we've got a description.
The description is URL encoded, added to the
URL, and it appears in the iTunes client.
We also have a title that titles the playlist and a list
of IDs that specify what content we want in this playlist.
Now, you can add songs, and albums, and music
videos, and movies, I believe, to this list.
Now, here's where this is the meat of how a Web iMix works.
You need to create a special affiliate
account with iTunes first,
and there'll be a link for you to
do that, an email address, rather.
What that will get you is a WD ID that identifies you as a
Web iMix affiliate, and you apply that to the URL you create
and then sign the URL with a secret that we share,
and attach that hash to the URL in the key parameter.
And that's Web iMix.
It's a simple feature, but you can
do a lot of great stuff with it.
And, finally, we have a special feature
that might be the most powerful tool
in this whole arsenal, and that's this Resources website.
We launched it about a few months ago, and
it's at apple.com/itunes/affiliates/resources.
It is a great way for you to stay on
top of new features, any sort of news,
tips and tricks that we can come up with, FAQs.
There's a lot of information there, so I
urge you to check it out and bookmark it.
Add it to your RSS list.
Lots of information, and it's updated frequently.
So, that's our Tools and Services.
In summary, the affiliate program is a great
way to earn bounties and promote your content.
To get started, check out Link Maker,
great way to create a few links.
But if you find that doesn't really scale
to what your needs are, there's other tools.
RSS lets you keep track of what's hot on the iTunes Store.
With Search API, you can come up
with queries to find what's going
on in a particular artist's realm or something like that.
EPF for doing some heavyweight data processing, and
there's EPF Importer to help you get started with that.
And, finally, Web iMix for creating custom playlists.
And, again, really, this website is a great
way-- I really urge you to check it out.
If you're interested in what's available, the
Resources website is a great way to start.
And if you haven't yet, sign up with an affiliate network.
Get started in this process, and
start earning some bounties.
As I said, third time, for documentation
and news, affiliate resources.
And our evangelist for this session is Mark Malone.